>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Okay, so
we've talked about some built-in types,
I did wanna move back to strings a little
bit and kinda just talk through a few
of the methods that I think are really
important for declaring strings.
As I mentioned, they are immutable by
nature, which means you can't change them,
you can reassign the variable, but
you can't change them once
they're instantiated.
There's a few different ways to declare
strings which I think all of them
bear mentioning.
So if I have a string name Spencer like
this, this is just a string declared
with a double quote on one side and
a double quote on another.
So this has a few properties that you
should be aware of, if you try to put in
a forward slash, it's gonna tell you,
wait a second, what the heck is that?
It's gonna say, hey,
it's just gonna throw a syntax error,
this is an escape character.
So you would do this to, for instance,
write a another single quote, or, sorry,
another double quote inside of the string.
This character would escape that character
so that you could put it in that string
without it, it thinks that
that's the end of the string.
There's a couple of examples of
this such as escape character n or
escape character t being a new line,
t being tab respectively, so
that's how you declare kind of
a quote on quote normal string.
There's also a verbatim string which does
not have a concept of escape character,
so you can write as many slashes
as you want, or even slash n and
and it won't interpret that as
a new line within that string.
Another kind of property of this is that,
because you can't escape double quotes,
a double quote does a single double
quote tell me if that's confusing.
A single double quote
throws a syntax error and
the way that you write a double quote,
an actual double quote is to just put
it twice inside of the context
of a verbatim string.
Next, I wanna briefly mention a relatively
new string type of way of declaring
a string, which is a string literal, I was
very excited when [INAUDIBLE] got this.
And it will basically be
pretty much anything you want,
including double quotes,
including lots of double quotes, and
it will interpret all of these things,
as a just a normal string.
Really good for if you're testing a blob
of JSON or something and you just wanna
drop in and don't wanna worry about
the double quotes kind of messing you up,
they are multi-line by nature,
which is really cool.
So another kind of string
thing to have in your toolbox,
and then lastly there is what's
called string interpolation.
So if you wanted to say name Spencer, and
then you wanted to greet Spencer,
you could say string greeting, and
then a you can put in that name
variable inside of your string.
You would start do that by doing dollar
sign, and then you would have quotes,
hello, which would be
the normal part of the string.
And then you would use a curly
brace to say name, and
that would give you a string with hello,
Spencer written in that.
So, few important ways to declare strings,
couple of things that I want to mention,
you can declare an empty string
with a double quote, like this.
String, empty string, double quote,
semicolon, I don't choose to do this most
of the time, I know this is
very common in other platforms,
especially JavaScript where you just
have empty strings everywhere like that.
I prefer to use string.empty just for
consistency, and as you can see,
if we dig into the source code for
this, let's see, it's a static,
okay, I'm not sure where it's
actually instantiated, but
it is essentially the value
of a blank string,
it is the exact same as
saying this just that string.
Another thing that I use a lot,
a couple of more methods that are on
the string class, that I think
are really important to talk about,
is this is an example of a static method
on the string class, which is is null or
empty and is null or whitespace.
So this is a method
that returns a bool and
it basically says that is this an empty
string or is this a null string?
An example of something that would be
is null or empty, string is null or
empty, if you passed it in an empty
string, it would return true,
if you passed it in a string with
whitespace, it would return false.
There's another method which is the one
that I use a ton of which is null or
whitespace, I do this because in
the context of web applications.
Sometimes people like to put trailing and
leading spaces inside of text fields, so
I wanna be able to check for those.
And so the way that I would do that is
by using is null or whitespace, and
we'll check to see if the string is null,
is empty or is whitespace.
And it's basically just looking for
the absence of a meaningful value to the
application, something that I use a lot.
Last thing that I will mention
is a string equality, so
there's a couple of different
ways to determine whether
a string is equal,
you can use the equal operator, or so
if you wanted to do an if statement
to say, is name double equals.
And again, it doesn't have the same
coercion semantics that it does in
JavaScript, it's a triple equals
in JavaScript essentially.
If name equals greeting like this,
you can do that and
that will perform a case
sensitive comparison.
I actually prefer not to compare
strings like this, I like to do it more
explicitly using the static method
string., sorry string.equals.
And what that will give you is it
gives you a few overloaded methods to
tell whether two strings are equal and I
wanna point out one of the two overloads.
So this is if you wanted to
check the strings for equality,
you could also use double
equals in this case.
But in almost all cases where I'm
doing any kind of string comparison,
I will specify the string
comparison explicitly.
And the ones that I use the most are
ordinal or ordinal ignore case, the other
one has to do with culture, which is not
something that, frankly, I use a lot of in
terms of I don't deal a lot with
cultural differences in applications.
So most of the time for most developers,
they are writing ordinal ignore case,
if we had Spencer and
Spencer, that would put those
two strings as being equal.
I prefer this vastly over what developers
like to do, which is name.ToLower,
which would of course return a lower
string and then greeting.ToLower.
We're getting a little bit ahead,
but if this name or
this greeting are instances that are null,
if they're set to null,
it will throw an exception and we can
see that if we run run this program and
accept, I set string name = null,
and then we run this program.
You'll see that in the console we
will get a null reference exception,
which we will talk about when we get into
talking about types a little bit more.
So I do like to use the static
string.equals method because it will
handle milk gracefully and
it won't throw an exception.
So word to the wise out there, there's
a bunch of things about strings that
a lot of different methods that you
can use to operate and modify strings.
You can check the length of a string
by doing the greeting.length,
and you can know how long that string is,
which is useful in case you were working
with a database where it's like this
thing can only be 100 characters and
you wanna limit that
string to 100 characters.
You can also use methods
like starts with or
ends with to see if a string starts
with a specific string of characters.
So we could see that greeting
starts with sp en you know that,
greeting.starts with which returns
Boolean, we can see that here.
Bool, you can use that to check
to see if a string starts or
ends with a specific thing.
You can trim the string,
which means removing the whitespace
from the beginning and the end.
You can take a portion of that string
using the substring method, and
you can also replace parts of that string.
So if you wanted to replace, let's say,
one of my clients lovingly
refers to me as Spencer Rita,
but sometimes he calls me margarita.
So if I wanted to play replace
my greeting.Replace and
we wanted to replace the greeting or
yes with Spencer Rita with meow,
that's how you would do that.
So I'd highly encourage you to look
through this documentation and
kinda get familiar with the string methods
as you're kind of working with them.
And I highly encourage anybody
to check the documentation
that is built right into the IDE, right?
You can hit greeting.and then
see all of the methods that
are available on the string class,
so that string's in a nutshell.
Last thing I will mention is that
every time you create a new string,
you allocate a new string which there
could be performance implications of that
if you find that you're doing that.
StringBuilder is a class if you're having
to append or assign a string and build
upon a string, maybe you're in a loop and
a hundred times it runs and every time
it adds to a specific StringBuilder is
a way that you can gain some efficiency.
It's a common pattern, I also like
it cause it's super explicit and
it doesn't do the string allocation, most
of the time you don't have to worry about
that performance, but I do use string
builder a lot, just in my day to day.